The President:
Hi, everybody.
As a nation, our top priority is
growing our economy and creating
good middle class jobs.
That's why this week I'm
speaking to you from the Argonne
National Laboratory in Illinois,
because few areas hold as much
promise as what they're
focused on right here --
harnessing American energy.
You see, after years
of talking about it,
we're finally poised to take
control of our energy future.
We produce more oil than
we have in 15 years.
We import less oil than
we have in 20 years.
We've doubled the amount of
renewable energy we generate
from sources like
wind and solar --
with tens of thousands of
good jobs to show for it.
We're producing more natural
gas than ever before --
with hundreds of thousands
of good jobs to show for it.
We've supported the first new
nuclear power plant since
the 1970s.
And we're sending less carbon
pollution into the environment
than we have in nearly 20 years.
So we're making real progress.
But over the past few weeks,
we got a reminder that we have
more work to do.
We went through another spike in
gas prices, just like last year,
and the year before that.
It happens every year.
It's a serious blow
to your budget --
like getting hit with a new tax
coming right out of your pocket.
Over the past four years, as
part of our all-of-the-above
energy strategy, we've taken
steps to soften that blow by
making sure our
cars use less gas.
We've put in place the toughest
fuel economy standards in our
history so that by the
middle of the next decade,
our cars will go twice as
far on a gallon of gas.
Over the life of a new car, the
average family will save more
than $8,000 at the pump.
But the only way we're going to
break this cycle of spiking gas
prices for good is to shift
our cars and trucks off of
oil for good.
That's why, in my State
of the Union Address,
I called on Congress to set up
an Energy Security Trust to fund
research into new technologies
that will help us
reach that goal.
Here's how it would work.
Much of our energy is drawn
from lands and waters that we,
the public, own together.
So I'm proposing that we take
some of our oil and gas revenues
from public lands and put it
towards research that will
benefit the public, so that we
can support American ingenuity
without adding a
dime to our deficit.
We can support scientists who
are designing new engines that
are more energy efficient;
developing cheaper batteries
that go farther on
a single charge;
and devising new ways to fuel
our cars and trucks with new
sources of clean energy -- like
advanced biofuels and natural
gas -- so drivers can one day go
coast-to-coast without using a
drop of oil.
Now, this idea isn't mine.
It actually builds off a
proposal put forward by a
non-partisan coalition of
CEOs and retired generals
and admirals.
So let's take their advice
and free our families and our
businesses from painful spikes
in gas prices once and for all.
And in the meantime, let's
keep moving forward on an
all-of-the-above
energy strategy.
A strategy where we produce
more oil and gas here at home,
but also more biofuels and
fuel-efficient vehicles;
more solar power and wind power.
A strategy where we put more
people to work building cars,
homes and businesses
that waste less energy.
We can do this.
We're Americans.
And when we commit
ourselves to something,
there's no telling
how far we'll go.
Thanks and have a great weekend.